LTspice ist ein Simulationsprogramm f"ur elektrische Schaltungen, in dem Schaltungen modelliert und simuliert werden k"onnen, um ben"otigte Parameter zu erhalten.
W"ahrend das Simulieren schnell ist, kann das Modellieren einer Schaltung durchaus Zeit beanspruchen und ist oft unn"otig, da Schaltungen bereits in handgezeichneter Form existieren. 
Eine automatisierte Umwandlung von handgezeichneten elektrischen Schaltungen in das LTspice Schematik Datenformat, k"onnte daher die Nutzerfreundlichkeit des Programms erh"ohen. 
Daher besch"aftigt sich die vorliegende Arbeit mit der Umwandlung von elektrischen Schaltungen in das LTspice Schematik Datenformat.
Die Umwandlungsabfolge beinhaltet das Erkennen von elektrischen Bauteilen und deren Annotationen, sowie das Segmentieren der gesamten Schaltung.
Hierbei kommt das Objekt Detektions-Netzwerk You Only Look Once (YOLO), sowie das Segmentierungs-Netzwerk MobileV2-UNet zum Einsatz.
Um die bestm"oglichen Ergebnisse zu erzielen, werden beide Netzwerke "uber eine Reihe von Experimenten verbessert. 
Die weiteren Schritte der vorgestellten Abfolge beinhalten zudem, das Erzeugen der Topologie einer Schaltung, das Verbinden von Annotationen mit den zugeh"origen elektrischen Schaltungs-Bauteilen, sowie das Erkennen des Texts in den Annotationen. 
Um die Umwandlung quantifizieren zu k"onnen wird au"serdem ein Evaluations Algorithmus vorgestellt, der mit dem Graph Edit Distance Algorithmus \cite{graph_edit_distance} verwandt ist.

LTspice is a simulation program for electrical circuits, in which circuits can be modeled and simulated in order to obtain the required parameters.
While the simulation is fast, modeling a circuit can take time and is often unnecessary because circuits already exist in hand-drawn form.
An automated conversion of hand-drawn electrical circuits into the LTspice schematic data format could therefore increase the user-friendliness of the program.
Therefore this thesis deals with the conversion of electrical circuits into the LTspice Schematik data format.
The conversion sequence includes the recognition of electrical components and their annotations, as well as the segmentation of the entire circuit.
The object detection network You Only Look Once (YOLO) and the segmentation network MobileV2-UNet are used here.
In order to achieve the best possible results, both networks are improved through a series of experiments.
The further steps of the presented sequence also include generating the topology of a circuit, connecting annotations with the associated electrical circuit components, and recognizing the text in the annotations.
In order to be able to quantify the conversion, a prototype for an evaluation algorithm is also presented, which is related to the Graph Edit Distance Algorithm \ cite {graph_edit_distance}.

LTspice is a simulation program for electrical circuits, in which circuits can be modeled and simulated in order to obtain required parameters.
While simulating is fast, modeling a circuit can take time and is often unnecessary, especially when circuits already exist in hand-drawn form. 
An automated conversion of hand-drawn electrical circuits into the LTspice schematic data format could therefore increase the usability of the program. 
Therefore, this thesis deals with the conversion of electrical circuits into the LTspice schematic file format.
The conversion pipeline includes the detection of electrical components and their annotations, as well as the segmentation of the entire circuit.
The object detection network You Only Look Once (YOLO) and the segmentation network MobileV2-UNet are used.
In order to achieve the best possible results, both networks are improved over a series of experiments. 
The further steps of the presented pipeline also include generating the topology of a circuit, mathing of annotations with their corresponding electrical circuit component and recognizing the text in the annotations. 
In order to quantify the results, an evaluation algorithm, related to the Graph Edit Distance algorithm \cite{graph_edit_distance}, is presented.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
